A Master And An Apprentice

Part 1: The Jobless

The wall felt like a wall, and he would know. It’s what he’s been banging his head against for the
last 5 minutes.
“Donny?, What’s the fracas?” asked his roommate Jacob, as he entered the room.
Donny slowly turned his head around, his face glum. His forehead was red and bruised, but at
least there was no blood. Slowly, he stood up and dusted himself off.
“Jacob, we aren’t in grade school anymore”, Donny sighed. “It isn’t a sin to say a bad word, so
you might as well just say the f-word”
“So what’s got you down in the dumps today Donny?” inquired Jacob.
Then, Donny sighed and flopped onto the couch. He buried his face in the pillow until his voice
was but a muffle. “Jacob? What good is FIVE YEARS getting a degree for a job as a food critic
if I can’t actually GET A DAMN JOB”
Jacob sits down on the couch and pats Donny on the back. “I mean, only a couple job offers in a
few months is not bad.” Suddenly, Donny sat up and glared at Jacob. “I’ve gotten ZERO offers
in 8 MONTHS. No way in hell is that normal.”
“Well”, Jacob started to say slowly. “You did get that one offer–”
“NO!”, yelled Donny. “No way am I gonna lick floors for a living!! What kind of sick human
being would ever do that?!”
“Umm, maybe someone who spent five years getting a degree in tasting foods might want to take
up a job in tasting?" said Jacob. “I don’t know, just my own thoughts.”
Donny got up slowly, and walked to the kitchen island. What if Jacob was right? He had worked
his butt off for a degree in tasting, he should at least take a job related to his degree. Besides,
surely there were workers in fast food restaurants who would leap at an opportunity for an easy
job. Perhaps he could give it a try.
“I guess I’ll take the job then” Donny sighed, defeated. “What’s the name of the employer
again?”
“Otto? Or maybe it was Ollie, or George?..”
“Just gimme that letter”, said Donny as he snatched the letter.
Donny,
My name is Otto and I am on the verge of an entrepreneurial wonder. A successful
business the likes of which this world has ever seen. I know food critics are common in
restaurants to determine the quality of the delicacies they provide. I think a true test of a food
critic’s skill is to be able to judge not only food, but anything. I propose a partnership. I am a
salesman of unparalleled skills. Combined with your impressive skills of taste, we could travel
around the world. It often takes lots of modern technology to determine the composition of
random items lying about, but with this plan, we will do so without spending a cent. I’m sure you
are down on money (believe me I know the feeling), and this is foolproof. Once our business
begins, the cash will come rolling in.
Best Wishes,
Otto
“Hmm” Donny stroked his non-existent beard thoughtfully. “I guess he did say that my skills
were impressive, and I’ve never been called impressive before. I guess I could give it a try.”
Jacob quickly stood up. “Yeah! My roommate has a moderately steady source of income.”
Donny rolled his eyes at Jacob. “Don’t ‘yeah’ me Jacob, we both know you just want me to pitch
in on the rent bill.”

Part 2: The Interview

“So my boy, are you ready to be a taster?”
His German accent was very clear in his voice, and he spoke with authority. To Donny, his voice
did not really seem to match with his stature, he was surprisingly short and he did not wear a
suit, just a polo shirt as if he was from Hawaii. They had agreed to meet in a coffee shop,
although Otto had suggested a bar, but Donny did not want to make a drunken deal. They had
just sat down to discuss the parameters of Donny’s new job and Otto had talked and talked about
his “vision” for at least an hour now, although Donny only wanted to know one thing.
“So how’s the pay?” asked Donny, practically on the edge of his seat with anxiety.
Otto raised his eyebrow at him. “To discuss pay you must take the job first my boy”
Suddenly, Otto took out a folder and contained within it 100 pages of a job agreement. “All you
have to do is sign here” said Otto as he pointed to the very bottom of the very last page. Donny,
exhausted already, quickly signed it. “So about that pay…” continued Donny.
“What pay?” Otto said, confused. “I don’t think you understand. In order to get a job you must
first be an intern. Page 54 subsection 3.” Otto quickly flipped to a page and pointed at a line. “In
order to work as a taster, the signer of this document must first work as an unpaid intern. For 10
years. Along with this, the signer of this document is also obligated to follow all rules and orders
set by the creator of this document, and is obligated to work up to or over 12 hours every day.”
“What the HELL” yelled Donny, startling everyone in the cafe. “You SCAMMER.”
“Come now Donny, with this kind of outburst I’ll have to fire you” responded Otto calmly.
“After ten years of work, I’ll pay you, if you do well. I think, for your interests, you should really
consider containing your anger.”
“Fine” Donny seethed. “When does the first workday start?”
Otto stood up smiling. “I’m so glad you asked. Tomorrow.” Then, he walked to the door of the
coffee shop and opened it while he took one last glance at Donny. “And Donny, do remember to
bring your tongue.” With that, he left Donny alone in the coffee shop.

Part 3: The Way of The Taster

“5:30 in the morning, bright and early” Donny whispered under his breath. His rapid breathing
made small puffs of steam that rose into the still-dark sky. “Bright and early, 5:30, hahaha”
Donny laughed a deranged laugh. “BRIGHT AND EARLY. Stupid Otto. Stupid Job. Stupid
Bright and Early.”
Donny walked over to the abandoned warehouse and pulled on the door handle. His mittens kept
slipping off over and over again, so he took it off and touched the handle. It was blistering cold.
“AHH F-”
*Squawk*
A crow flew off into the distance from its perch on a nearby lamppost, scared off by Donny’s
scream. As Donny entered the building, he warmed up slightly, but all the windows were blown
out, and there was no back wall. Standing in the middle of the warehouse was Otto.
“So, it’s time you learned.” said Otto as he took out a slab of wood. “Try it out, this was taken
from somewhere around the world. What type of wood is it? , and how long has it been removed
from the tree?” Otto then tossed the wood to Donny who caught it after fumbling for a bit. As
Donny stared at the wood, he was unaware of Otto sneaking around behind him, and before he
knew it, he was blindfolded. “Otto? This better not be some trick.”
“Use your tongue, not your eyes. You are a taster after all.” Otto called from somewhere to
Donny’s left. With a certain level of disgust, Donny took a lick. Obviously, it was gross.
“How the hell do I tell what type of tree this is?” Donny yelled out desperately.
“You’ll learn soon enough”, Otto said again, this time somewhere to Donny’s right.
“How do I tell how long it’s been removed from a tree?”
“You’ll learn with time.”
Donny suddenly stopped walking. “Time?! You speak of time?!?! I have to work for you,
UNPAID for 10 YEARS. You said you were going to teach me, but you don’t know anything.
You don’t know ANYTHING. YOU DON’T KNOW ANYTH–”
*thunk*

Epilogue

The cabin was high up in the snowy hills. As the taster and his apprentice approached the cabin,
they began to see just how old it was. The wind whipped at both figures, and the snow was just
as relentless. A nice 15 mile walk was all it took for them to get here. The taster was wearing a
thick winter jacket adorned with lots of golden badges. The apprentice had a jacket as well, and a
large hood to obscure the massive red bruise on the back of his head, which had been there for 5
months. When the taster reached the steps of the cabin, he motioned to his apprentice to come up
the steps to the door. It was their first job off the grid, so no one else was there. No one else was
watching. No one else would know. An old house that had been built over an abandoned well,
and it hadn’t been used for over 50 years. The floor was unstable and the apprentice knew it. The
taster may not know the taste of floors, but soon he would know the taste of revenge.
